feat: add group tutorial (#1164)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: tutorials/understanding-group/index.md

---
parent:
title: Understanding the Group Module
order: 0

> description: Use the Cosmos SDK group module to create and manage on-chain multisig accounts and enables voting for message execution based on configurable decision policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use the Cosmos SDK group module to create and manage on-chain multisig accounts and enable voting for message execution based on configurable decision policies.
```

---

# Group Module

The [`group`](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/modules/group/) module enables the creation and management of multisig accounts and enables voting for message execution based on configurable decision policies.

## Usage of the group module

When the group module is enabled in a chain (say the Cosmos Hub), this means that users can create groups and submit a group proposal.

> This means that any group of users can be part of a group and vote on the group proposal. You can think of it as an enhanced multisig or DAO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that any number of users can be part of a group and vote on the group proposal. You can think of it as an enhanced multisig or DAO.
```

> Before starting, let's first review a few terminologies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting, let's first review some terminology:
```

* **Group Admin**: the person that creates the group is the group administrator. The group administrator is the person who can add, remove and change the group members, but does not need to be part of the group itself. Chose it wisely.
* **[Group Policy](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/modules/group/01_concepts.html#group-policy)**: 
* **[Decision Policy](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/modules/group/01_concepts.html#decision-policy)**: a policy that defines how the group members can vote on a proposal and how the vote outcome is calculated.

> * **Proposal**: Groups proposal works the same way as governance proposal: group members can submit proposals to the group and vote with a *Yes*, *No*, *No with Veto* and *Abstain* on proposals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Proposal**: A group proposal works the same way as a governance proposal: group members can submit proposals to the group and vote on proposals with a *Yes*, *No*, *No with Veto* and *Abstain*.
```

In this tutorial, we will learn how to create groups, manage its members and submit and vote on a group proposal.
After that you'll be able to create your own on-chain DAO for your own use case.

## Requirements

The group module has been introduced in the [v0.46.0 release](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/modules/group/) of the Cosmos SDK.
In order to follow the tutorial, you must use the binary of a chain with the group module, using a v0.46+ version of the SDK.

> For demonstration purposes, we will use `simd`, the simulation app of the Cosmos SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For demonstration purposes, you will use `simd`, the simulation app of the Cosmos SDK.
```

> For installing `simd`, first clone the Cosmos SDK GitHub repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install `simd`, first clone the Cosmos SDK GitHub repository:
```

```sh

> git clone https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk --depth=1 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk --depth=1 --branch v0.46.0
```

```

Go to the cloned directory and checkout the v0.46.0 release:

```sh

> cd cosmos-sdk && git checkout v0.46.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd cosmos-sdk
```

```

Install `simd`

```sh
make install
```

Make sure the installation was successful:

```sh
simd version
```

The version number should be greater than or equal to `0.46.0`.

## Configuration

> ::: tip
> If you have used `simd` before, you might already have a `.simapp` directory in your home directory. You can skip to the next section or remove the chain directory (`rm -rf ~/.simapp`).
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<HighlightBox type="tip">

If you have used `simd` before, you might already have a `.simapp` directory in your home directory. You can skip to the next section or remove the chain directory (`rm -rf ~/.simapp`).

</HighlightBox>
```

In order to configure `simd`, you need to set the chain ID and the keyring backend.

```sh
simd config chain-id demo
simd config keyring-backend test
```

> Secondly, you need to add keys for group users; let's call them alice and bob.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secondly, you need to add keys for group users. Call them Alice and Bob.
```

```sh
simd keys add alice
simd keys add bob
```

With `simd keys list` you can verify that our two users have been added.

> ::: tip
> To avoid having to copy and paste the user addresses, now is a good time to export the user keys to variables that you can access and use for this tutorial.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<HighlightBox type="tip">

To avoid having to copy and paste the user addresses, now is a good time to export the user keys to variables that you can access and use for this tutorial.

</HighlightBox>
```

```sh

> export ALICE_KEY=$(simd keys show alice -a)
> export BOB_KEY=$(simd keys show bob -a)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export ALICE=$(simd keys show alice -a)
export BOB=$(simd keys show bob -a)
```

I think these are addresses indeed, not keys. That could confuse readers.

```

Now we are ready to fund alice and bob accounts and use alice account as validator:

```sh
simd init test --chain-id demo
simd add-genesis-account alice 5000000000stake --keyring-backend test
simd add-genesis-account bob 5000000000stake --keyring-backend test
simd gentx alice 1000000stake --chain-id demo
simd collect-gentxs
```

> Lastly, we start the chain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, start the chain:
```

```sh
simd start
```

> `simapp` is now configured and running! We can now play with the group module!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`simapp` is now configured and running. You can now play with the group module.
```

## Create a group

> For creating a group, we must decide who is the admin and who are the members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a group, you must decide who is the admin and who are the members.
```

All members have a voting weight that is used to calculate their voting power in the group.

> Let's create a `members.json` file that contains group members of a football association.
> Replace `aliceaddr` and `bobaddr` by the address of Alice (`$ALICE_KEY`) and Bob (`$BOB_KEY`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `members.json` file that contains group members of a football association.
Replace `aliceaddr` and `bobaddr` with the literal addresses of Alice (`$ALICE`) and Bob (`$BOB`) respectively.
```

```json
{
    "members": [
        {
            "address": "aliceaddr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "president"
        },
        {
            "address": "bobaddr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "treasurer"
        }
    ]
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Create  the group:
```

```sh

> simd tx group create-group $ALICE_KEY "best football association" members.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simd tx group create-group $ALICE "best football association" members.json
```

```

> 
> Let's see the group that we just created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query and verify the group that you just created:
```

```sh

> simd query group groups-by-admin $ALICE_KEY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simd query group groups-by-admin $ALICE
```

> simd query group group-members 1 # use the group id given by the previous command

Reviewer: I am thinking of:

1. Either split those 2 lines apart with some explanation text between.
2. And/Or add `--sync-mode block` to the `tx` command, and look at the id that was returned. And use this id by saying "confirm it is the same" and "reuse it". Because I always prefer to teach how to keep track of what you did instead of throwing an action to the wind and then using other commands to find out where it landed. Keep the query by admin because that's useful in its own right.

```

> Nice! Our group has `best football association` as metadata, Alice as group admin and having Alice and Bob as group members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nice! Our group has `best football association` as metadata, Alice as group admin, and Alice and Bob as group members.
```

## Manage group members

For updating the group members, we send a transaction using the `update-group-members` command.

> We can add a member in our members.json for adding a group member, or set a member voting weight to `0` for deleting the member.

Author: Yes correct.

> Let's add Carol, Carlos and Charlie as group members and remove Bob:

Reviewer: I am a proponent of keeping the ABCDE and female / male / f / m / f tempo of names as they are introduced: Alice, Bob, Carol, Dave, Emma.

```json
{
    "members": [
        {
            "address": "aliceaddr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "president"
        },
        {
            "address": "bobaddr",
            "weight": "0", // this deletes bob
            "metadata": "treasurer"
        },
        {
            "address": "caroladdr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "treasurer"
        },
        {
            "address": "carlosaddr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "player"
        },
                {
            "address": "charlieaddr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "player"
        },
    ]
}
```

```sh

> simd tx group update-group-members $ALICE_KEY 1 members.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simd tx group update-group-members $ALICE 1 members.json
```

```

> We can verify that the group members are updated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify that the group members are updated:
```

```sh
simd query group group-members 1
```

> As an exercice, please re-add bob in the group and go to the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an exercise, please add Bob back in the group and go to the next section.
```

## Create group policy

> Next we need to decide of a group policy. This defines how long a proposal can be voted on and how the outcome is calculated.
> Here we use the `ThresholdDecisionPolicy`, it defines a threshold of yes votes (based on a tally of voter weights) that must be achieved in order for a proposal to pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next you need to decide on a group policy. This defines how long a proposal can be voted on and how its outcome is calculated.
Here you use the `ThresholdDecisionPolicy`. It defines the threshold that the tally of weighted _yes_ votes must reach in order for a proposal to pass. Each member's vote is weighted by its weight as defined in the group.
```

> Following is the content of the `policy.json`. Proposals can be voted on for a maximum of 10 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following is the content of the `policy.json`. It states that proposals can be voted on for a maximum of 10 minutes.
```

> Following is the content of the `policy.json`. Proposals can be voted on for a maximum of 10 minutes.
> A proposal requires only one vote to pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following is the content of the `policy.json`. It states that:

* A proposal can be voted on for a maximum of 10 minutes.
* A proposal requires only one vote to pass.
```

```json
{
    "@type": "/cosmos.group.v1.ThresholdDecisionPolicy",
    "threshold": "1",
    "windows": {
        "voting_period": "10m",
        "min_execution_period": "0s"
    }
}
```

```sh
simd tx group create-group-policy $ALICE_KEY 1 "" policy.json
```

> Let's verify our newly created group policy and save its address for future use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify your newly created group policy and save its address for future use:
```

Here too I would make sure that you get the id in the `tx` command.

```sh
simd query group group-policies-by-group 1

> export GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS=$(simd query group group-policies-by-group 1 --output json | jq -r '.group_policies[0].address')

Reviewer: I wonder if it would be worthwhile to explain why a group policy has a `cosmos123...` address.

Author: Good point, added in the terminology section

```

> ## Vote on proposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Vote on a proposal
```

> Now that we have a group with a few members and a group policy, let's submit our first group proposal.
> Like for members management, we need to create a `proposal.json` file that contains the proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have a group with a few members and a group policy, you submit your first group proposal.
Like for members management, you need to create a `proposal.json` file that contains the proposal.
```

> A proposal can be of any message. For this tutorial, we continue with our example of an association.
> The treasurer, Bob, wants to send money to a third party to pay the bills and creates a `proposal.json`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A proposal can be of any message. For this tutorial, you continue with your example of an association.
The treasurer, Bob, who wants to send money to a third party to pay the bills, creates a `proposal.json`:
```

```json
{
    "group_policy_address": "cosmos1..." , // the $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS
    // array of proto-JSON-encoded sdk.Msgs
    "messages": [
        {
            "@type": "/cosmos.bank.v1beta1.MsgSend",
            "from_address": "cosmos1...", // the $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS
            "to_address": "cosmos1zyzu35rmctfd2fqnnytthheugqs96qxsne67ad", // a third-party
            "amount": [
                {
                    "denom": "stake",
                    "amount": "100"
                }
            ]
        }
    ],
    "metadata": "costs utilities",

>     "proposers": [ "cosmos1..." ] // $BOB_KEY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "proposers": [ "cosmos1..." ] // $BOB
```

}
```

> This proposal, if pass, will send 100 stake to cosmos1zyzu35rmctfd2fqnnytthheugqs96qxsne67ad to pay the bills.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal, if passed, will send 100 `stake` to `cosmos1zyzu35rmctfd2fqnnytthheugqs96qxsne67ad` to pay the bills.
```

The tokens will be sent from the decision policy address.

> ::: tip
> The decision policy has no fund yet. We can fund it by sending a transaction with `simd tx bank send alice $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS 100stake`.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<HighlightBox type"tip">

The decision policy has no fund yet. We can fund it by sending a transaction with `simd tx bank send alice $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS 100stake`.

</HighlightBox>
```
Can you explain what happens if there are 2 messages in the proposal and one fails at execution?

```sh
simd tx group submit-proposal proposal.json --from bob
```

## View and vote on proposals

> Let's see the proposal of our football association:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check and verify the proposal of your football association:
```

Here again I would like to see the id taken from the previous `tx` command.

```sh
simd query group proposals-by-group-policy $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS
```

> We can see our proposal has been submitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that your proposal has been submitted.
```

> Next, we have Alice and Bob vote `Yes` on it and verify that our two votes are tallied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, have Alice and Bob vote _Yes_ on the proposal and verify that both their votes are tallied:
```

```sh

> simd tx group vote 1 $ALICE_KEY VOTE_OPTION_YES "agree"
> simd tx group vote 1 $BOB_KEY VOTE_OPTION_YES "agree"
> simd query group tally-result 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simd tx group vote 1 $ALICE VOTE_OPTION_YES "agree"
simd tx group vote 1 $BOB VOTE_OPTION_YES "agree"
simd query group tally-result 1
```
I suppose that the tally is updated after a vote transaction has been validated. Does this mean we should submit them with `--sync-mode block` to avoid race conditions?

Author: Broadcast mode `block` is deprecated, we should not use it.

```

> After 10 minutes, our proposal should have passed, as the number of `Yes` votes are above the decision policy threshold:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait for the policy-prescribed 10 minutes, after which your proposal should have passed, as the weighted tally of _Yes_ votes is above the decision policy threshold:
```

```sh
simd query group proposal 1
```

> By default proposal are not executed immediately so let's do that now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default proposals are not executed immediately. This is to account for the fact that not everything may be in place to execute the proposal's messages. As you recall, you already funded the group policy. If you had not done it ahead of time, now would have been a good time to fund it.

Execute the proposal now:
```

I think this is a good opportunity

Author: :+1:

```sh
simd tx group exec 1 --from alice
```

Verify that the proposal has been executed and the tokens have been sent:

```sh
simd query bank balances cosmos1zyzu35rmctfd2fqnnytthheugqs96qxsne67ad
```

## 🎉 Congratulations 🎉

> By completing this tutorial, you have learned how to use the `group` module:
> 
> * Create a group
> * Manage its members
> * Submit a group proposal
> * Vote on a proposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By completing this tutorial, you have learned how to use the `group` module. In particular how to:

* Create a group.
* Manage its members.
* Add a group policy.
* Submit a group proposal.
* Vote on a proposal.
```

The [`group`](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/modules/group/) module enables the creation and management of multisig accounts and enables voting for message execution based on configurable decision policies.

## Usage of the group module

When the group module is enabled in a chain (say the Cosmos Hub), this means that users can create groups and submit a group proposal.
This means that any number of users can be part of a group and vote on the group proposal. You can think of it as an enhanced multisig or DAO.

Before starting, let's first review some terminology:

* **Group Admin**: the account that creates the group is the group administrator. The group administrator is the account who can add, remove and change the group members, but does not need to be a member of the group itself. Choose it wisely.
* **[Group Policy](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/modules/group/01_concepts.html#group-policy)**: a group policy is an account associated with a group and a decision policy. In order to perform action on this account, a proposal must be approved by the majority of the group members; or as defined in the decision policy. Note, a group can have multiple group policies.

> * **[Decision Policy](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/modules/group/01_concepts.html#decision-policy)**: a policy that defines how the group members can vote on a proposal and how the vote outcome is calculated.

Author: Yes correct, I will precise!

            "metadata": "player"
        },
                {
            "address": "emmaaddr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "player"
        },
    ]
}
```

```sh
simd tx group update-group-members $ALICE $GROUP_ID members.json
```

You can verify that the group members are updated:

```sh
simd query group group-members $GROUP_ID
```

As an exercise, please add Bob back in the group and go to the next section.

## Create a group policy

Next you need to decide on a group policy. This defines how long a proposal can be voted on and how its outcome is calculated.
Here you use the `ThresholdDecisionPolicy`. It defines the threshold that the tally of weighted _yes_ votes must reach in order for a proposal to pass. Each member's vote is weighted by its weight as defined in the group.

Following is the content of the `policy.json`. It states that:

* A proposal can be voted on for a maximum of 10 minutes.
* A proposal requires only one vote to pass.

```json
{
    "@type": "/cosmos.group.v1.ThresholdDecisionPolicy",
    "threshold": "1",
    "windows": {
        "voting_period": "10m",
        "min_execution_period": "0s"
    }
}
```

```sh

> simd tx group create-group-policy $ALICE $GROUP_ID "" policy.json

Author: Yes, it wants, in rc2, inline json, but by the release it won't be the case.
I have fixed that already for consistency with the other commands.

> simd tx group create-group-policy $ALICE $GROUP_ID "" policy.json

Reviewer: I updated my suggestion to only modify the metadata.

```

Verify your newly created group policy and save its address for future use:

```sh
simd query group group-policies-by-group $GROUP_ID
export GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS=$(simd query group group-policies-by-group $GROUP_ID --output json | jq -r '.group_policies[0].address')
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Note how the decision policy's address, at `cosmos` plus 59 characters  is longer than a _regular_ account's address, at `cosmos` plus 39 characters.

```

Is there a way to explain that?

## Create a proposal

Now that you have a group with a few members and a group policy, you submit your first group proposal.
Like for members management, you need to create a `proposal.json` file that contains the proposal.

A proposal can contain any number of messages defined on the current blockchain.

For this tutorial, you continue with your example of an association. The treasurer, Bob, who wants to send money to a third party to pay the bills, creates a `proposal.json`:

```json
{
    "group_policy_address": "cosmos1..." , // the $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS
    // array of proto-JSON-encoded sdk.Msgs
    "messages": [
        {
            "@type": "/cosmos.bank.v1beta1.MsgSend",
            "from_address": "cosmos1...", // the $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS
            "to_address": "cosmos1zyzu35rmctfd2fqnnytthheugqs96qxsne67ad", // a third-party
            "amount": [
                {
                    "denom": "stake",
                    "amount": "100"
                }
            ]
        }
    ],

>     "metadata": "costs utilities",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "metadata": "utilities bill",
```

    "proposers": [ "bobaddr" ] // $BOB
}
```

This proposal, if passed, will send 100 `stake` to `cosmos1zyzu35rmctfd2fqnnytthheugqs96qxsne67ad` to pay the bills.
The tokens will be sent from the decision policy address.

<HighlightBox type="tip">

The decision policy has no funds yet. You can fund it by sending a transaction with `simd tx bank send alice $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS 100stake`.

</HighlightBox>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Submit the proposal:
```

```sh
simd tx group submit-proposal proposal.json --from bob
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once more, extract the proposal ID:

export PROPOSAL_ID=$(simd query tx A4964638539F96DFAF6342204720D97D9FD8683E614F9A3BD4C0C5073990EF06 --output json | jq '.events' | jq -r '.[] | select(.type == "cosmos.group.v1.EventSubmitProposal") | .attributes[0].value' | base64 --decode | jq -r '.')

```

## View and vote on proposals

Check and verify the proposal of your football association:

```sh
simd query group proposals-by-group-policy $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS

> export PROPOSAL_ID=$(simd query group proposals-by-group-policy $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS --output json | jq -r '.proposals[0].id')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simd query group proposals-by-group-policy $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS --output json | jq -r '.proposals[0].id'
```

```

> You can see that your proposal has been submitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that your proposal has been submitted. And that it contains a lot of information. For instance, confirm that its final tally is empty:

simd query group proposals-by-group-policy $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS --output json | jq '.proposals[0].final_tally_result'

Which returns:

{
  "yes_count": "0",
  "abstain_count": "0",
  "no_count": "0",
  "no_with_veto_count": "0"
}

And that it is in the `PROPOSAL_STATUS_SUBMITTED` status:

simd query group proposals-by-group-policy $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS --output json | jq -r '.proposals[0].status'
```

> Next, have Alice and Bob vote _Yes_ on the proposal and verify that both their votes are tallied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, have Alice and Bob vote _Yes_ on the proposal and verify that both their votes are tallied using the proper query command:
```

```sh
simd tx group vote $PROPOSAL_ID $ALICE VOTE_OPTION_YES "agree"

> simd tx group vote $PROPOSAL_ID $BOB VOTE_OPTION_YES "agree"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simd tx group vote $PROPOSAL_ID $BOB VOTE_OPTION_YES "aye"
```

simd query group tally-result $PROPOSAL_ID
```

> Wait for the policy-prescribed 10 minutes, after which your proposal should have passed, as the weighted tally of _Yes_ votes is above the decision policy threshold:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While you wait for the policy-prescribed 10 minutes, you can confirm that the final tally is still empty. After the 10 minutes have gone by your proposal should have passed, because the weighted tally of _Yes_ votes is above the decision policy threshold. Confirm this by looking at its `status`. It should be `PROPOSAL_STATUS_ACCEPTED`:
```

```sh
simd query group proposal $PROPOSAL_ID
```

> By default proposals are not executed immediately. This is to account for the fact that not everything may be in place to successfully execute the proposal's messages. As you recall, you already funded the group policy. If you had not done it ahead of time, now would have been a good time to fund it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default proposals are not executed immediately. You can confirm this by looking at the proposal, it contains `executor_result: PROPOSAL_EXECUTOR_RESULT_NOT_RUN`. This is to account for the fact that not everything may be in place to successfully execute the proposal's messages. As you recall, you already funded the group policy. If you did not fund it ahead of time, now is the time to do it.
```

	
Execute the proposal now:

```sh
simd tx group exec $PROPOSAL_ID --from alice
```

<HighlightBox type="note">

If there were any errors when executing the proposal messages, none of the messages will be executed and the proposal will be marked as _Failed_.

</HighlightBox>

> Verify that the proposal has been executed and the tokens have been sent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the proposal has been executed:

simd query group proposal $PROPOSAL_ID

Should return an error:

Error: rpc error: code = Unknown desc = load proposal: not found: unknown request

That is because it has been entirely removed. Confirm that the tokens have been received by the intended recipient:
```

Let's add Carol, Dave and Emma as group members and remove Bob. Create `members_update.json` with:

```json
{
    "members": [
        {
            "address": "bobaddr", // $BOB
            "weight": "0" // this deletes bob
            // The metadata does not need to be mentioned
        },
        {
            "address": "caroladdr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "treasurer"
        },
        {
            "address": "daveaddr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "player"
        },
                {
            "address": "emmaaddr",
            "weight": "1",
            "metadata": "player"
        },
    ]
}
```

```sh
$ simd tx group update-group-members $ALICE $GROUP_ID members_updates.json
```

You can verify that the group members are updated:

```sh
$ simd query group group-members $GROUP_ID
```

As an exercise, please add Bob back in the group and go to the next section.

## Create a group policy

Next you need to decide on a group policy. This defines how long a proposal can be voted on and how its outcome is calculated.

> Here you use the [`ThresholdDecisionPolicy`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/release/v0.46.x/proto/cosmos/group/v1/types.proto#L53-L62). It defines the threshold that the tally of weighted _yes_ votes must reach in order for a proposal to pass. Each member's vote is weighted by its weight as defined in the group.

Reviewer: Is the proper word _group policy_ or _decision policy_ or _group decision policy_?

Author: Precised.

Following is the content of the `policy.json`. It states that:

* A proposal can be voted on for a maximum of 10 minutes.
* A proposal requires only one vote to pass.

```json
{
    "@type": "/cosmos.group.v1.ThresholdDecisionPolicy",
    "threshold": "1",
    "windows": {
        "voting_period": "10m",
        "min_execution_period": "0s"
    }
}
```

Have the group administrator create the group policy with metadata that identifies it as one with a quick turnaround:

```sh
$ simd tx group create-group-policy $ALICE $GROUP_ID "quick turnaround" policy.json
```

> Check and verify your newly created group policy and in particular the address you just extracted:

Reviewer: You did not want to also include the address extraction from the indexed transaction?

Author: Added

	
Execute the proposal now:

```sh
$ simd tx group exec $PROPOSAL_ID --from alice
```

<HighlightBox type="note">

If there were any errors when executing the proposal messages, none of the messages will be executed and the proposal will be marked as _Failed_.

</HighlightBox>

Verify that the proposal has been executed:
	
```sh
simd query group proposal $PROPOSAL_ID
```

It should return an error: `Error: rpc error: code = Unknown desc = load proposal: not found: unknown request`. That is because it has been entirely removed.

Confirm that the tokens have been received by the intended recipient:

```sh
$ simd query bank balances cosmos1zyzu35rmctfd2fqnnytthheugqs96qxsne67ad
```

## 🎉 Congratulations 🎉

By completing this tutorial, you have learned how to use the `group` module. In particular how to:

* Create a group.
* Manage its members.
* Add a group policy.
* Submit a group proposal.
* Vote on a proposal.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Execute an accepted proposal.

```

```sh
$ simd query group proposals-by-group-policy $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS --output json | jq '.proposals[0].final_tally_result'
```

Which returns:

```json
{
  "yes_count": "0",
  "abstain_count": "0",
  "no_count": "0",
  "no_with_veto_count": "0"
}
```

And that it is in the `PROPOSAL_STATUS_SUBMITTED` status:

```sh
$ simd query group proposals-by-group-policy $GROUP_POLICY_ADDRESS --output json | jq -r '.proposals[0].status'
```

Next, have Alice and Bob vote _Yes_ on the proposal and verify that both their votes are tallied using the proper query command:

```sh
$ simd tx group vote $PROPOSAL_ID $ALICE VOTE_OPTION_YES "agree"
$ simd tx group vote $PROPOSAL_ID $BOB VOTE_OPTION_YES "aye"
$ simd query group tally-result $PROPOSAL_ID
```

While you wait for the policy-prescribed 10 minutes, you can confirm that the final tally is still empty. After the 10 minutes have gone by your proposal should have passed, because the weighted tally of _Yes_ votes is above the decision policy threshold. Confirm this by looking at its `status`. It should be `PROPOSAL_STATUS_ACCEPTED`:

```sh
$ simd query group proposal $PROPOSAL_ID
```

> By default proposals are not executed immediately. You can confirm this by looking at the proposal, it contains `executor_result: PROPOSAL_EXECUTOR_RESULT_NOT_RUN`. This is to account for the fact that not everything may be in place to successfully execute the proposal's messages. As you recall, you already funded the group policy. If you did not fund it ahead of time, now is the time to do it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default proposals are not executed immediately. You can confirm this by looking at the proposal, it contains `executor_result: PROPOSAL_EXECUTOR_RESULT_NOT_RUN`.

<HighlightBox type="remember">

This is to account for the fact that not everything may be in place to successfully execute the proposal's messages. As you recall, you already funded the group policy. If you did not fund it ahead of time, now is the time to do it. 

Another advantage of execution by way of a transaction is that it shifts the cost of the messages onto a network participant. If the cost was born in an end blocker, it would open the door to gas arbitrage and outright spam attacks.

</HighlightBox>
```

Author: Partially added

Reviewer: Do you think the end blocker remark does not apply?
Or too far a remark from the goal of the tutorial?

Author: It's a valid remark, however none of the CLI tutorials discuss the internals, I thought it'd be fine to leave that out.

Create the group:

```sh
$ simd tx group create-group $ALICE "best football association" members.json
```

It is here, by sending the create transaction, that Alice becomes the administrator of the group.

At what ID was the group created? Recall the transaction and look for the attributes of the event whose type is `"cosmos.group.v1.EventCreateGroup"`. For instance:

```sh
$ simd query tx 079D9B213DCDE99DB0E31A8AFE9B0FDC605C81C1880D08D99A493A7BC52FAC23 --output json | jq ".events" | jq '.[] | select(.type == "cosmos.group.v1.EventCreateGroup") | .attributes'
```

This returns something like:
	
```json
[
  {
    "key": "Z3JvdXBfaWQ=",
    "value": "IjEi",
    "index": true
  }
]
```

Where `Z3JvdXBfaWQ=` is a [Base64 encoding](https://www.browserling.com/tools/base64-decode) of `group_id`, and `IjEi` is a Base64 encoding of `"1"`, including the `"`. Therefore your group ID is `1`. Or with a one-liner:

```sh

> export GROUP_ID=$(simd query tx 079D9B213DCDE99DB0E31A8AFE9B0FDC605C81C1880D08D99A493A7BC52FAC23 --output json | jq '.events' | jq -r '.[] | select(.type == "cosmos.group.v1.EventCreateGroup") | .attributes[0].value' | base64 --decode | jq -r '.')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export GROUP_ID=$(simd query tx 079D9B213DCDE99DB0E31A8AFE9B0FDC605C81C1880D08D99A493A7BC52FAC23 --output json | jq '.events' | jq -r '.[] | select(.type == "cosmos.group.v1.EventCreateGroup") | .attributes[0].value' | base64 --decode | jq -r '.')
```

```sh
$ simd query group proposal $PROPOSAL_ID
```

By default proposals are not executed immediately. You can confirm this by looking at the proposal, it contains `executor_result: PROPOSAL_EXECUTOR_RESULT_NOT_RUN`.

<HighlightBox type="remember">

This is to account for the fact that not everything may be in place to successfully execute the proposal's messages. As you recall, you already funded the group policy. If you did not fund it ahead of time, now is the time to do it.

Next time, if you wish to try to execute a proposal immediately after its submission, you can do so by using the `--exec 1` flag. It will count the proposers signatures as _Yes_ votes.

</HighlightBox>
	
Execute the proposal now:

```sh
$ simd tx group exec $PROPOSAL_ID --from alice
```

<HighlightBox type="note">

If there were any errors when executing the proposal messages, none of the messages will be executed and the proposal will be marked as _Failed_.

</HighlightBox>

Verify that the proposal has been executed:
	
```sh

> simd query group proposal $PROPOSAL_ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ simd query group proposal $PROPOSAL_ID
```

Before starting, let's first review some terminology:

* **Group Admin**: the account that creates the group is the group administrator. The group administrator is the account who can add, remove and change the group members, but does not need to be a member of the group itself. Choose it wisely.

> * **[Group Policy](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/modules/group/01_concepts.html#group-policy)**: a group policy is an account associated with a group and a decision policy. In order to perform action on this account, a proposal must be approved by the majority of the group members; or as defined in the decision policy.

Author: :+1:

## Create a group policy

Next you need to decide on a group policy. This defines how long a proposal can be voted on and how its outcome is calculated.

> Here you use the `ThresholdDecisionPolicy`. It defines the threshold that the tally of weighted *yes* votes must reach in order for a proposal to pass. Each member's vote is weighted by its weight as defined in the group.

Reviewer: Is this Markdownlint too? Throughout the content we use `_` for italics.

Author: Okay, I can tweak the `markdownlint.json` to that then. Currently, it is set to `*`.
